fix: GraphQL rehaul (#1036)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/reference/datasources/graphql.md

---
# GraphQL

This page describes how to connect your application to a GraphQL API and use queries to manage its content.

<VideoEmbed host="youtube" videoId="KPLrbp-4Y6E" title="How To Build Apps With GraphQL APIs feat. Hasura" caption=""/>

> ## Connect to GraphQL API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Connect to GraphQL
```

To add a GraphQL datasource, click the (**+**) sign in the **Explorer** tab next to **Datasources**. On the next screen, select the **Authenticated GraphQL API** button. Your datasource is created and you are taken to a screen to configure its settings.

If your API doesn't require authentication, you can select the **GraphQL API** datasource instead and skip the configuration screen.

<figure>
  <img src="/img/graphql-datasource-config.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Configuring a GraphQL datasource" />
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Configuring a GraphQL datasource.</i></figcaption>
</figure>

:::tip

> If you want to connect to a local database, you can use a service like ngrok to expose it. For more information, see [How to connect to local database on Appsmith](/advanced-concepts/more/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to connect to a local API, you can use a service like ngrok to expose it. For more information, see [How to connect to local database on Appsmith](/advanced-concepts/more/how-to-work-with-local-apis-on-appsmith).
```

:::

> To connect to your database, Appsmith needs the following parameters. All required fields are suffixed with an asterisk (*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to a GraphQL API endpoint, Appsmith needs the following parameters. All required fields are suffixed with an asterisk (*).
```

**URL*:** provide the URL of the GraphQL service to query. If you are on a self-hosted instance and connecting to an API on `localhost`, use `host.docker.internal` on Windows and macOS hosts and `172.17.0.1` on Linux hosts to access services running on the host machine from within the container.

**Headers:**  provide any header key-value pairs that you'd like to include in your HTTP requests.

**Query Parameters:** provide any parameters that should be passed as key-value pairs in the URL of your requests.

**Send Appsmith signature header:** choose whether to include a special token in your request headers to help prove authenticity and integrity. For more information, read [signature headers](/core-concepts/connecting-to-data-sources/authentication/signature-header-in-api-actions).

> **Authentication Type:** choose the style of authentication to use for your queries.

Reviewer: we also have a page for authentication type, so why not redirect there for more info like the others

Author: Added the link -- it seems like the content on these pages (particularly the "Basic" one) isn't super helpful, but we'll probably rehaul those pages in the future to be more valuable

**Use self-signed certificate:** choose whether to upload your own self-signed certificate for encryption. For more information, read [self-signed certificates](/core-concepts/connecting-to-data-sources/authentication/self-signed-certificates).

## Create queries

<figure>
  <img src="/img/graphql-query-config.png" style={{width: "100%", height: "auto"}} alt="Configuring a GraphQL query." />

>   <figcaption align="center"><i>Configuring a GraphQL query.</i></figcaption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <figcaption align="center"><i>Creating a GraphQL query</i></figcaption>
```

</figure>

You can write [queries](https://docs.appsmith.com/core-concepts/data-access-and-binding/querying-a-database/query-settings) to fetch or write data by selecting the **+ New Query**  button on the Authenticated GraphQL datasource page, or by clicking (**+**) next to **Queries/JS** in the **Explorer** tab and selecting your GraphQL datasource. You'll be brought to a new query screen where you can write queries.

> GraphQL queries are written in the "Body" tab of the query screen. Use the "Query" window to construct your query or mutation, and the adjacent "Query Variables" window to add any variables to map into your query.

Reviewer: let all UI element be in bold text. for eg: **Body** tab

> ### Fetch records

Reviewer: why are not using the same public API used in the current docs?
